# Engineering log

## 2022-08-01
HTTPX Tutorial - A next-generation HTTP client for Python
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qAh5dDODJ5k&ab_channel=Fireship

## 2022-07-30
Monorepos
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9iU_IE6vnJ8&ab_channel=Fireship

## 2022-06-05
Integration Testing With Pytest
https://scanairobi.hashnode.dev/integration-testing-with-pytest

## 2022-06-05

Advanced TypeScript
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLIvujZeVDLMx040-j1W4WFs1BxuTGdI_b

Dynamic function arguments with GENERICS - Advanced TypeScript
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YE_3WwX-Dl8&list=PLIvujZeVDLMx040-j1W4WFs1BxuTGdI_b&index=5&ab_channel=MattPocock

## 2022-05-01
Migrations done well
https://blog.pragmaticengineer.com/typical-migration-approaches/

Software development is a loser's game
https://thehosk.medium.com/software-development-is-a-losers-game-fc68bb30d7eb

Open source tools
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qXUl3VsbA6o
## 2022-03-17

Design Patterns and Principles That Support Largiaie Scale Systems
https://medium.com/everything-full-stack/design-patterns-and-principles-that-support-large-scale-systems-f3c9adf89ad

## 2022-03-13
E2E web app testing
https://playwright.dev/

## 2022-03-11

Best practices of advanced serverless developers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnFm6MlPnco

Networking best practices for serverless applications (SVS404-R1)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PF7HaD567rM

I didn’t know Amazon API Gateway did that
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yfJZc3sJZ8E

Handling secrets with AWS
https://www.lastweekinaws.com/blog/handling-secrets-with-aws/
## 2022-03-07

Lambda layer: not a package manager, but a deployment optimization
https://medium.com/theburningmonk-com/lambda-layer-not-a-package-manager-but-a-deployment-optimization-85ddcae40a96

AWS Lambda Cookbook - Elevate your handler's code
https://github.com/ran-isenberg/aws-lambda-handler-cookbook

Serverless architectural patterns and best practices
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9IYpGTS7Jy0

## 2022-03-06
The Architecture of Open Source Applications
http://aosabook.org/en/index.html

## 2022-03-05

A complete MLOps project
https://github.com/jacopotagliabue/you-dont-need-a-bigger-boat

Amazon Aurora vs DynamoDB
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=crHwekf0gTA&ab_channel=BeABetterDev

A complete serverless app - Serverless Airline
https://github.com/aws-samples/aws-serverless-airline-booking

## 2022-03-04

MLOps is a mess
https://www.mihaileric.com/posts/mlops-is-a-mess/

9 Tools I Wish I Mastered before My PhD in Machine Learning
https://towardsdatascience.com/nine-tools-i-wish-i-mastered-before-my-phd-in-machine-learning-708c6dcb2fb0

## 2022-03-01
AWS Lambda interview questions
https://sandro.volpee.de/aws-lambda-interview-questions

## 2022-02-28
AWS SAM sample project repo
https://github.com/subzero112233/aws-sam-example

AWS IAM cheatsheet
https://digitalcloud.training/aws-iam/

AWS IAM PassRole
https://blog.rowanudell.com/iam-passrole-explained/

AWS SAM CLI permissions
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/sam-permissions.html
https://github.com/aws/aws-sam-cli/issues/420

AWS SAM tips
https://lumigo.io/blog/5-tips-for-getting-the-most-out-of-aws-sam/

Python common mistakes and tips
https://www.toptal.com/python/top-10-mistakes-that-python-programmers-make

The 12 Factor App
https://12factor.net/

Python logging best practices
https://docs.python-guide.org/writing/logging/

## 2022-02-27

Makefile tutorials for Python projects
https://earthly.dev/blog/python-makefile/
https://stackabuse.com/how-to-write-a-makefile-automating-python-setup-compilation-and-testing/

AWS Lambda events
https://michaelbrewer.github.io/aws-lambda-events

## 2022-02-23

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xQHgRgKquqQ&ab_channel=AWSOnlineTechTalks
Mastering the AWS Serverless Application Model (AWS SAM) - AWS Online Tech Talks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QBBewrKR1qg&ab_channel=AWSOnlineTechTalks

## 2022-02-21

Notebooks In Production With Metaflow
https://outerbounds.com/blog/notebooks-in-production-with-metaflow/

Four Ways to Improve Your AWS Lambda
https://betterprogramming.pub/four-ways-to-improve-your-aws-lambda-1cfd3a3115d6

## 2022-02-19

AWS Serverless Workshops
https://github.com/aws-samples/aws-serverless-workshops

Testing a Click app with streaming input
https://til.simonwillison.net/pytest/test-click-app-with-streaming-input

CS 330: Deep Multi-Task and Meta Learning
https://cs330.stanford.edu/

Python unit testing tips by Simon Willison
https://simonwillison.net/2020/Feb/11/cheating-at-unit-tests-pytest-black/

TIL website by Simon Willison
https://til.simonwillison.net/

CLI app template for Python with cookiecutter
https://github.com/simonw/click-app

Documentation tool, build websites with markdown
https://docusaurus.io/

Jake Vanderplas - Statistics for Hackers - PyCon 2016
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Iq9DzN6mvYA

AWS Lambda Powertools Python
https://awslabs.github.io/aws-lambda-powertools-python/latest/

## 2022-02-17
Killer Docker Workflows for Development
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EfpVgKtqZVw

## 2022-02-15
Testing AWS Step Functions locally
https://dev.to/aws-builders/testing-aws-step-functions-flows-2kpn

## 2022-02-12
AWS CDK project structure
https://cainscloud.hashnode.dev/production-ready-cdk-project-structure
https://github.com/projen/projen

ML workload tips
https://aws.amazon.com/de/blogs/architecture/optimize-ai-ml-workloads-for-sustainability-part-1-identify-business-goals-validate-ml-use-and-process-data/

AWS Lambda Layers
https://aws.hashnode.com/what-are-aws-lambda-layers-and-when-should-i-use-them

## 2022-02-08
Warnings or logs
https://stackoverflow.com/a/14762106/6641096

https://community.lsst.org/t/how-best-to-warn-in-python-logs-or-warnings/4733/2

>I feel like warnings and logs are two different types of things.
I would expect warnings to be used for programming warnings: deprecated APIs, calling functions with invalid (but recoverable) arguments, using APIs in ways that may be erroneous, and that sort of thing. I would expect logs to be used for problems that are external to the code and aren’t a programming error: unwritable directories, missing configuration files, network services that are unavailable, or other problems with external resources or the execution environment.

## 2022-02-06
Kaggle competition winners' presentation by NVIDIA
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL5B692fm6--uXbxtmPJz5nu3Xmc1JUm3F

How to evaluate MLOps tools? Hamel Husain
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GHk5HMW4XMA

GraphQL course
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qux4-yWeZvo

## 2022-01-08

- Fastai monitor
https://github.com/alexiej/FastaiMonitor

- deep learning practitioner cheat sheet
https://alexiej.github.io/deepnn/

## 2021-12-19

- Diagram and visualization tool, Mermaid
https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid/#/

- Creating a slide deck with VS Code
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TObd8hnPa8w

- Note taking in VS Code with Dendron
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dW6m4_O0qvQ
https://wiki.dendron.so/

## 2021-11-28

- Docker best practices by Tech Nana
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8vXoMqWgbQQ

## 2021-10-25

- pip-tools, pip-compile
https://github.com/jazzband/pip-tools

## 2021-10-24

- Why Some Software Engineers Fail
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ya2SHtymTEs

- Docker best practices
https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/dockerfile_best-practices/
https://docs.docker.com/develop/dev-best-practices/
https://testdriven.io/blog/docker-best-practices

## 2021-09-26

- Functional programming design patterns by Scott Wlaschin
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E8I19uA-wGY

## 2021-09-25

- VS Code productivity tips
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ifTF3ags0XI

## 2021-09-23

- TDD with Javascript
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jv2uxzhPFl4

- UNC COMP 523: Serious Functional Programming in TypeScript: Putting Category Theory to Work for You
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tmVk_4oRL-Y

## 2021-09-21

- Scott Wlaschin - Domain Modeling Made Functional
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PLFl95c-IiU

## 2021-09-19

- mostly-adequate-guide, functional programming book
https://mostly-adequate.gitbook.io/mostly-adequate-guide/ch04

## 2021-09-17

- fp-ts: Functional programming library for TypeScript
https://gcanti.github.io/fp-ts/learning-resources/

- How to "Google It" like a Senior Software Engineer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cEBkvm0-rg0

## 2021-09-16

- Effective Unit Testing by Eliotte Rusty Harold
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fr1E9aVnBxw&ab_channel=Devoxx

## 2021-09-14

- Functional programming with TypeScript
https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/typescript-in-5-minutes-func.html
https://dev.to/airtucha/functors-and-monads-in-plain-typescript-33o1


## 2021-09-12
- Automated Testing in Python with pytest, tox, and GitHub Actions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DhUpxWjOhME&ab_channel=mCoding

- Continuous deployment pipeline real example 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bHKHdp4H-8w

## 2021-09-11

- Confusing explanations
https://jvns.ca/blog/confusing-explanations/

- MLOps Primer - 2021
https://elvissaravia.substack.com/p/mlops-primer-2021

## 2021-09-06

- Jenkins intro by Nana
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7KCS70sCoK0

## 2021-09-05

- Kafka Streams tutorial
https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/streams/

- Building Streaming Microservices with Apache Kafka - Tim Berglund
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hlb-Ss3q3as&t=556s

- Kafka intro Confluent
https://kafka.apache.org/intro

- Kafka concepts cheat sheet
https://www.admios.com/blog/cto-cheat-sheet-apache-kafka

## 2021-09-02

- VS Code prioritize snippets
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/37863609/vs-code-intellisense-dont-suggest-snippet-at-first

## 2021-09-01

- Use terminal in vim
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S6lK0437hQM

## 2021-08-31

- Design Microservice Architectures the Right Way
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6ow-UemzBc

- Microservices with Kafka
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IR1NLfaq7PU

## 2021-08-28

- Kafka tutorial with Docker
https://www.baeldung.com/ops/kafka-docker-setup

## 2021-08-27

- BatchNorm
http://d2l.ai/chapter_convolutional-modern/batch-norm.html

## 2021-08-26

- Software architecture, system design, bottlenecks and queues
https://ferd.ca/queues-don-t-fix-overload.html

## 2021-08-25

- p-value calculation with pandas
https://calmcode.io/sleep/the-problem.html

- Data engineering best practices with Airflow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dgaoqOZlvEA&t=504s

- Data engineering blog series 
https://medium.com/@rchang/a-beginners-guide-to-data-engineering-part-i-4227c5c457d7
https://medium.com/@rchang/a-beginners-guide-to-data-engineering-part-ii-47c4e7cbda71

- PostgreSQL run sql file
https://kb.objectrocket.com/postgresql/how-to-run-an-sql-file-in-postgres-846

## 2021-08-24

- Apache Kafka introduction
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=06iRM1Ghr1k&ab_channel=Confluent

- Kubeflow and AWS 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LKmkiUdhV58&t=18s&ab_channel=AWSOnlineTechTalks

- Databases in microservices world
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-9Veoch50Bg&ab_channel=CodingTech

- Claim check messaging pattern for large blobs
https://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/patterns/messaging/StoreInLibrary.html

- MLOps best practices by neptune.ai
https://neptune.ai/blog/mlops-what-it-is-why-it-matters-and-how-to-implement-it-from-a-data-scientist-perspective

## 2021-08-19

- Convert Python/Julia repos into Docker images
https://repo2docker.readthedocs.io/en/latest/usage.html

- What happens when a volume links an existing populated host dir and container dir ? 
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39647411/what-happens-when-a-volume-links-an-existing-populated-host-and-container-dir

## 2021-08-18

- Decent explanation of RetinaNet object detection model
https://towardsdatascience.com/retinanet-the-beauty-of-focal-loss-e9ab132f2981

- Awesome extensions for fastai library 
https://github.com/nestordemeure/fastai-extensions-repository

- TabNet extension for fastai library
https://github.com/mgrankin/fast_tabnet

- pytest tutorial
https://realpython.com/pytest-python-testing/


## 2021-08-13

- In-depth tutorial of object detection with deep learning 
https://github.com/sgrvinod/a-PyTorch-Tutorial-to-Object-Detection

- Show details of an installed Python package
https://machinelearningmastery.com/how-to-train-an-object-detection-model-with-keras/
```py
pip show mask-rcnn
```

## 2021-08-12

- User stories in software development
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0HMsh459h5c&ab_channel=ContinuousDelivery

- CI vs Feature Branching
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v4Ijkq6Myfc&ab_channel=ContinuousDelivery
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lXQEi1O5IOI&ab_channel=ContinuousDelivery


## 2021-08-11

- GitOps intro
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f5EpcWp0THw&t=618s&ab_channel=TechWorldwithNana

- Docker VS Code development setup
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sUZxIWDUicA&ab_channel=Docker
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mi8kpAgHYFo&ab_channel=MaksimIvanov
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KFyRLxiRKAc&ab_channel=codeSTACKr

- Some tips for using Docker in development and production
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EfpVgKtqZVw&ab_channel=CodingTech 


## 2021-08-10

- Hamel Hussein's Docker notes
https://notes.hamel.dev/docs/docker/Docker-In-Action.html#injecting-environment-variables


## 2021-08-08

- Prometheus metrics 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h4Sl21AKiDg&ab_channel=TechWorldwithNana

- CI/CD tutorial
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLy7NrYWoggjzSIlwxeBbcgfAdYoxCIrM2

- Docker tutorial
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3c-iBn73dDE&ab_channel=TechWorldwithNana

- Kubernetes tutorial
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X48VuDVv0do&t=241s&ab_channel=TechWorldwithNana

## 2021-08-07

- Good explanation of why correlation/prediction is not causation. 
https://shap.readthedocs.io/en/latest/example_notebooks/overviews/Be%20careful%20when%20interpreting%20predictive%20models%20in%20search%20of%20causal%C2%A0insights.html